Asymptotic McDonald–Kreitman Test to estimate the proportion of non-synonymous substitutions driven by positive selection.

We will use the WEBSITE (you can run on the command line, which might best when running on your data). See:
http://benhaller.com/messerlab/asymptoticMK.html


There are two types of sites according to frequency: polymorphic (p) and fixed or substitution (d).
There are two types of sites according to functionality: non-synonymous (d, pN) and synonymous (d0, pS)



INPUT FILES
-----------

/embo/data/aida/MK/input_files/

Copy them to your home (path of your choice)

Two types of files:

*_with1
This file has the count for non-synonymous and synonymous sites, including the number of substitutions as sites of frequency 1, in the last line. These two values have to be introduced in the web page.

*_no1
This file contains only polymorphic sites, as I removed frequency 1 just to make your life easier. This is the file to upload.



1. EXPLORING THE METHOD
------------------------

Go to the webpage and run the tool. 

Run using the SampleData file (this is Drosophila data). You will have to provide d (59570) and d0 (159058) (from Haller and Messer, 2017).

Explore how changing these two values affects the inferences, even if the polymorphism data is constant. Why is that?



2. HUMAN DATA
--------------

Now run with the human data in the files I provided:
- AfricanAmerican
- EuropeanAmerican


!! Note that you will need to upload the file “_no1” and paste the counts of sites with frequency 1 in the webpage as d and d0.


Are there important differences between “AfricanAmerican” and “EuropeanAmerican” humans? Do you find this surprising?
Are there differences between the results in humans and Drosophila? Are you surprised by these differences?
I


3. PONGO DATA
—-------------

Now run with the orangutan (Pongo) data in the files I provided:
- PongoAbe
- PongoPyg

QUESTION: What do you think of these results? 
QUESTION: Are there interesting biological questions one could ask with this approach and data? What does it tell us about the method?



4. OTHER QUESTIONS
------------------

What do you think about the power of the test for individual genes?
What about sets of genes?
Do you think it would have power to differentiate sets of genes with high/low alpha values in Drosophila? And in humans?
Would this help us identify signatures of other types of selection, such as balancing selection? 

